AMO_SUBMISSION.md, before:

# Mozilla Add-ons (AMO) Submission Guide

## Pre-Submission Checklist

### ✅ Extension Requirements

- [x] **Manifest Version**: Using Manifest V2 (correct for Thunderbird)
- [x] **Minimum Version**: Set to Thunderbird 115.0 (latest ESR)
- [x] **Extension ID**: Uses proper format `filter-by-sender@martinloeffler`
- [x] **Version Number**: Follows semantic versioning (1.1.0)
- [x] **Permissions**: Minimal permissions (only messagesRead, tabs, menus)
- [x] **Icons**: All required sizes including 128px for AMO
- [x] **License**: MIT License included

### ✅ Code Quality

- [x] No minified or obfuscated code
- [x] Clear, commented code
- [x] No remote code execution
- [x] No external dependencies
- [x] No analytics or tracking

### ✅ Privacy & Security

- [x] No data collection
- [x] No network requests
- [x] Works completely offline
- [x] Clear privacy policy in README

## Build for Submission

```bash
# 1. Clean build
rm -f *.xpi icon-*.png

# 2. Generate fresh icons
python3 generate_icons.py

# 3. Create the XPI package
./build.sh

# 4. Verify the package
unzip -l same-address-filter.xpi
```

## AMO Submission Process

### 1. Create Developer Account

- Go to https://addons.mozilla.org/developers/
- Sign in with Firefox Account
- Complete developer agreement

### 2. Submit New Extension

#### Basic Information

- **Name**: Same Address Filter
- **Summary**: Quickly filter emails from the same sender with a keyboard shortcut or right-click
- **Categories**:
  - Privacy & Security
  - Productivity
- **License**: MIT License
- **Privacy Policy**: Link to README.md#privacy-policy

#### Description (for AMO listing)

```markdown
Filter all emails from the same sender instantly with a single keyboard shortcut or right-click!

**Key Features:**
• Press Ctrl+Shift+Q to instantly filter by sender (customizable)
• Right-click any email and select "Filter all emails from this sender"
• Integrates seamlessly with Thunderbird's Quick Filter
• Works with selected emails or when viewing messages
• Zero configuration needed - works out of the box

**Perfect for:**
• Finding all emails from a specific contact
• Tracking correspondence threads
• Quick email organization
• Power users who love keyboard shortcuts

**Privacy First:**
• No data collection
• No external connections
• Minimal permissions
• 100% open source

**Keyboard Shortcut:**
Default: Ctrl+Shift+Q (Cmd+Shift+Q on Mac)
Customizable via Add-ons → Manage Extension Shortcuts
```

#### Technical Details

- **Thunderbird Compatibility**: 115.0 - \*
- **Extension Type**: WebExtension (Manifest V2)
- **Permissions Required**: messagesRead, tabs, menus

### 3. Upload Files

1. Upload `same-address-filter.xpi`
2. Source code: Link to GitHub repository

### 4. Screenshots (Recommended)

Create screenshots showing:

1. Context menu option in action
2. Quick Filter populated with email address
3. Keyboard shortcut in use

### 5. Version Notes

```
Version 1.1.0:
- Added keyboard shortcut support (Ctrl+Shift+Q)
- Improved error handling
- Optimized for Thunderbird 115+ ESR

Version 1.0.0:
- Initial release
- Context menu filtering
```

## Post-Submission

### Expected Review Time

- Initial review: 5-10 business days
- Updates: 1-5 business days

### Common Review Issues to Avoid

- ✅ No unnecessary permissions
- ✅ Clear description of functionality
- ✅ No minified code
- ✅ Proper version numbering
- ✅ Valid manifest.json

### After Approval

1. Update README.md with AMO link
2. Create GitHub release with .xpi file
3. Tag version in git: `git tag v1.1.0`
4. Consider setting up automated updates

## Support Information for AMO

**Support Email**: [Your email]
**Support URL**: https://github.com/martin/Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress/issues
**Homepage**: https://github.com/martin/Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress

## Update Process

When updating the extension:

1. Increment version in `manifest.json`
2. Update README.md version history
3. Build new XPI
4. Submit update through AMO developer hub
5. Include clear version notes

## Marketing Assets

### Short Description (250 chars)

"Instantly filter emails by sender with one keyboard shortcut or right-click. Simple, fast, privacy-focused."

### Tags

- email filter
- sender filter
- quick filter
- keyboard shortcut
- productivity
- email organization
- privacy

## Notes

- The extension name in AMO can be different from the repository name
- Consider "Same Address Filter" or "Quick Sender Filter" for better discoverability
- AMO requires the extension to work with the latest Thunderbird ESR (currently 115.x)

Commit message:

Rename extension from "Same Address Filter" to "Filter by sender" and update related files accordingly. Modify build scripts, documentation, and context menu titles to reflect the new name. Ensure consistency across all references to the extension.

AMO_SUBMISSION.md, after:

# Mozilla Add-ons (AMO) Submission Guide

## Pre-Submission Checklist

### ✅ Extension Requirements

- [x] **Manifest Version**: Using Manifest V2 (correct for Thunderbird)
- [x] **Minimum Version**: Set to Thunderbird 115.0 (latest ESR)
- [x] **Extension ID**: Uses proper format `filter-by-sender@martinloeffler`
- [x] **Version Number**: Follows semantic versioning (1.1.0)
- [x] **Permissions**: Minimal permissions (only messagesRead, tabs, menus)
- [x] **Icons**: All required sizes including 128px for AMO
- [x] **License**: MIT License included

### ✅ Code Quality

- [x] No minified or obfuscated code
- [x] Clear, commented code
- [x] No remote code execution
- [x] No external dependencies
- [x] No analytics or tracking

### ✅ Privacy & Security

- [x] No data collection
- [x] No network requests
- [x] Works completely offline
- [x] Clear privacy policy in README

## Build for Submission

```bash
# 1. Clean build
rm -f *.xpi icon-*.png

# 2. Generate fresh icons
python3 generate_icons.py

# 3. Create the XPI package
./build.sh

# 4. Verify the package
unzip -l filter-by-sender.xpi
```

## AMO Submission Process

### 1. Create Developer Account

- Go to https://addons.mozilla.org/developers/
- Sign in with Firefox Account
- Complete developer agreement

### 2. Submit New Extension

#### Basic Information

- **Name**: Filter by sender
- **Summary**: Quickly find emails from the same sender with a keyboard shortcut or right-click
- **Categories**:
  - Privacy & Security
  - Productivity
- **License**: MIT License
- **Privacy Policy**: Link to README.md#privacy-policy

#### Description (for AMO listing)

```markdown
Filter all emails from the same sender instantly with a single keyboard shortcut or right-click!

**Key Features:**
• Press Ctrl+Shift+Q to instantly filter by sender (customizable)
• Right-click any email and select "Find all emails from this sender"
• Integrates seamlessly with Thunderbird's Quick Filter
• Works with selected emails or when viewing messages
• Zero configuration needed - works out of the box

**Perfect for:**
• Finding all emails from a specific contact
• Tracking correspondence threads
• Quick email organization
• Power users who love keyboard shortcuts

**Privacy First:**
• No data collection
• No external connections
• Minimal permissions
• 100% open source

**Keyboard Shortcut:**
Default: Ctrl+Shift+Q (Cmd+Shift+Q on Mac)
Customizable via Add-ons → Manage Extension Shortcuts
```

#### Technical Details

- **Thunderbird Compatibility**: 115.0 - \*
- **Extension Type**: WebExtension (Manifest V2)
- **Permissions Required**: messagesRead, tabs, menus

### 3. Upload Files

1. Upload `filter-by-sender.xpi`
2. Source code: Link to GitHub repository

### 4. Screenshots (Recommended)

Create screenshots showing:

1. Context menu option in action
2. Quick Filter populated with email address
3. Keyboard shortcut in use

### 5. Version Notes

```
Version 1.1.0:
- Added keyboard shortcut support (Ctrl+Shift+Q)
- Improved error handling
- Optimized for Thunderbird 115+ ESR

Version 1.0.0:
- Initial release
- Context menu filtering
```

## Post-Submission

### Expected Review Time

- Initial review: 5-10 business days
- Updates: 1-5 business days

### Common Review Issues to Avoid

- ✅ No unnecessary permissions
- ✅ Clear description of functionality
- ✅ No minified code
- ✅ Proper version numbering
- ✅ Valid manifest.json

### After Approval

1. Update README.md with AMO link
2. Create GitHub release with .xpi file
3. Tag version in git: `git tag v1.1.0`
4. Consider setting up automated updates

## Support Information for AMO

**Support Email**: [Your email]
**Support URL**: https://github.com/martin/Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress/issues
**Homepage**: https://github.com/martin/Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress

## Update Process

When updating the extension:

1. Increment version in `manifest.json`
2. Update README.md version history
3. Build new XPI
4. Submit update through AMO developer hub
5. Include clear version notes

## Marketing Assets

### Short Description (250 chars)

"Instantly filter emails by sender with one keyboard shortcut or right-click. Simple, fast, privacy-focused."

### Tags

- email filter
- sender filter
- quick filter
- keyboard shortcut
- productivity
- email organization
- privacy

## Notes

- The extension is named "Filter by sender" for better discoverability
- The repository name remains "Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress" for historical reasons
- AMO requires the extension to work with the latest Thunderbird ESR (currently 115.x)
