INSTALL.md, before:

# Same Address Filter - Installation Guide

## Overview

This Thunderbird extension adds a convenient context menu option to quickly filter all emails from the same sender.

## Features

- **Context Menu**: Right-click on any email in the message list to filter by sender
- **Quick Filter**: Automatically populates the filter/search with the sender's email address
- **Simple & Fast**: No complex UI, just right-click and filter

## Prerequisites

- Mozilla Thunderbird 91.0 or higher
- Python 3 with PIL/Pillow (for generating icons)

## Installation Steps

### 1. Generate Icons

First, generate the icon files:

```bash
pip3 install Pillow
python3 generate_icons.py
```

### 2. Prepare for Sideloading

#### Option A: Temporary Installation (For Testing)

1. Open Thunderbird
2. Go to **Menu (≡)** → **Add-ons and Themes** (or press `Ctrl+Shift+A`)
3. Click the **gear icon** (⚙) → **Debug Add-ons**
4. Click **"This Thunderbird"** on the left panel
5. Click **"Load Temporary Add-on..."**
6. Navigate to your extension folder and select the `manifest.json` file
7. The extension will be loaded until Thunderbird restarts

#### Option B: Permanent Sideloading (Recommended)

##### For Linux Mint:

1. Package the extension:

   ```bash
   cd /path/to/Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress
   zip -r same-address-filter.xpi * -x "*.py" "*.md" ".git/*"
   ```

2. Install the XPI file:
   - Open Thunderbird
   - Go to **Menu (≡)** → **Add-ons and Themes**
   - Click the gear icon (⚙) → **Install Add-on From File...**
   - Select the `same-address-filter.xpi` file
   - Click **Add** when prompted

##### Alternative: Direct Installation to Profile

1. Find your Thunderbird profile folder:

   ```bash
   # Usually located at:
   ~/.thunderbird/[profile-name]/extensions/
   ```

2. Create a folder with the extension ID:

   ```bash
   mkdir -p ~/.thunderbird/[profile-name]/extensions/same-address-filter@local
   ```

3. Copy all extension files to that folder:

   ```bash
   cp -r /path/to/Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress/* ~/.thunderbird/[profile-name]/extensions/same-address-filter@local/
   ```

4. Restart Thunderbird

### 3. Enable the Extension

After installation, you may need to:

1. Go to **Add-ons and Themes**
2. Find "Same Address Filter" in the Extensions list
3. Make sure it's enabled (toggle should be ON)

## Usage

### How to Use

1. **Right-click** on any email in your message list
2. Select **"Filter all emails from this sender"** from the context menu
3. The quick filter will be automatically populated with the sender's email address
4. All emails from that sender will be displayed

The extension uses Thunderbird's built-in Quick Filter bar to show results. You'll see the filter applied in the filter area, showing only emails from the selected sender.

## Troubleshooting

### Extension Not Working?

1. Check Thunderbird version (must be 91.0+):

   - Help → About Thunderbird

2. Check Browser Console for errors:

   - Menu → Developer Tools → Error Console
   - Look for messages from "Same Address Filter"

3. Verify permissions:
   - Ensure the extension has necessary permissions in Add-ons Manager

### Context Menu Not Appearing?

If the context menu option doesn't appear:

- Make sure you're right-clicking on an email in the message list (not in the reading pane)
- Restart Thunderbird after installation
- Check for conflicts with other extensions that modify context menus
- Verify the extension is enabled in Add-ons and Themes

### Filter Not Working?

The extension uses Thunderbird's Quick Filter API. If it doesn't work:

- The email address will be copied to clipboard as a fallback
- You can manually paste it into the filter field

## Uninstallation

### For Temporary Installation:

Simply restart Thunderbird

### For Permanent Installation:

1. Go to **Add-ons and Themes**
2. Find "Same Address Filter"
3. Click **Remove**

## Development Notes

### File Structure:

```
Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress/
├── manifest.json          # Extension manifest
├── background.js          # Background script for message handling
├── icon-16.png           # Icons (various sizes)
├── icon-32.png
├── icon-48.png
├── icon-64.png
├── generate_icons.py     # Icon generation script
├── build.sh              # Build script for creating XPI
├── .gitignore            # Git ignore file
└── INSTALL.md           # This file
```

### Permissions Used:

- `messagesRead`: Read message metadata
- `accountsRead`: Access account information
- `tabs`: Manage tabs
- `menus`: Create context menus
- `storage`: Store temporary data
- `accountsFolders`: Access folder information

## Version History

- v1.0.0: Initial release with context menu support for filtering by sender

## Support

This is a local/sideloaded extension. For issues or modifications, edit the source files directly.

Commit message:

Implement keyboard shortcut support for filtering emails by sender in background.js. Update INSTALL.md to include new shortcut instructions and modify manifest.json to reflect version change and add command configuration.

INSTALL.md, after:

# Same Address Filter - Installation Guide

## Overview

This Thunderbird extension adds a convenient keyboard shortcut and context menu option to quickly filter all emails from the same sender.

## Features

- **Context Menu**: Right-click on any email in the message list to filter by sender
- **Keyboard Shortcut**: Press `Ctrl+Shift+F` (or `Cmd+Shift+F` on Mac) to filter by sender
- **Quick Filter**: Automatically populates the filter/search with the sender's email address
- **Simple & Fast**: Works with both mouse and keyboard

## Prerequisites

- Mozilla Thunderbird 91.0 or higher
- Python 3 with PIL/Pillow (for generating icons)

## Installation Steps

### 1. Generate Icons

First, generate the icon files:

```bash
pip3 install Pillow
python3 generate_icons.py
```

### 2. Prepare for Sideloading

#### Option A: Temporary Installation (For Testing)

1. Open Thunderbird
2. Go to **Menu (≡)** → **Add-ons and Themes** (or press `Ctrl+Shift+A`)
3. Click the **gear icon** (⚙) → **Debug Add-ons**
4. Click **"This Thunderbird"** on the left panel
5. Click **"Load Temporary Add-on..."**
6. Navigate to your extension folder and select the `manifest.json` file
7. The extension will be loaded until Thunderbird restarts

#### Option B: Permanent Sideloading (Recommended)

##### For Linux Mint:

1. Package the extension:

   ```bash
   cd /path/to/Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress
   zip -r same-address-filter.xpi * -x "*.py" "*.md" ".git/*"
   ```

2. Install the XPI file:
   - Open Thunderbird
   - Go to **Menu (≡)** → **Add-ons and Themes**
   - Click the gear icon (⚙) → **Install Add-on From File...**
   - Select the `same-address-filter.xpi` file
   - Click **Add** when prompted

##### Alternative: Direct Installation to Profile

1. Find your Thunderbird profile folder:

   ```bash
   # Usually located at:
   ~/.thunderbird/[profile-name]/extensions/
   ```

2. Create a folder with the extension ID:

   ```bash
   mkdir -p ~/.thunderbird/[profile-name]/extensions/same-address-filter@local
   ```

3. Copy all extension files to that folder:

   ```bash
   cp -r /path/to/Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress/* ~/.thunderbird/[profile-name]/extensions/same-address-filter@local/
   ```

4. Restart Thunderbird

### 3. Enable the Extension

After installation, you may need to:

1. Go to **Add-ons and Themes**
2. Find "Same Address Filter" in the Extensions list
3. Make sure it's enabled (toggle should be ON)

## Usage

### Method 1: Keyboard Shortcut (Fastest!)

1. Select any email in your message list or open an email
2. Press **`Ctrl+Shift+F`** (Linux/Windows) or **`Cmd+Shift+F`** (Mac)
3. The quick filter will instantly populate with the sender's email address

### Method 2: Right-Click Context Menu

1. **Right-click** on any email in your message list
2. Select **"Filter all emails from this sender"** from the context menu
3. The quick filter will be automatically populated with the sender's email address

The extension uses Thunderbird's built-in Quick Filter bar to show results. You'll see the filter applied in the filter area, showing only emails from the selected sender.

## Troubleshooting

### Extension Not Working?

1. Check Thunderbird version (must be 91.0+):

   - Help → About Thunderbird

2. Check Browser Console for errors:

   - Menu → Developer Tools → Error Console
   - Look for messages from "Same Address Filter"

3. Verify permissions:
   - Ensure the extension has necessary permissions in Add-ons Manager

### Keyboard Shortcut Not Working?

If `Ctrl+Shift+F` doesn't work:

- The shortcut might conflict with another extension or system shortcut
- You can customize it: Go to **Add-ons and Themes** → **⚙ Gear Menu** → **Manage Extension Shortcuts**
- Find "Same Address Filter" and set your preferred shortcut
- Make sure an email is selected or displayed when using the shortcut

### Context Menu Not Appearing?

If the context menu option doesn't appear:

- Make sure you're right-clicking on an email in the message list (not in the reading pane)
- Restart Thunderbird after installation
- Check for conflicts with other extensions that modify context menus
- Verify the extension is enabled in Add-ons and Themes

### Filter Not Working?

The extension uses Thunderbird's Quick Filter API. If it doesn't work:

- The email address will be copied to clipboard as a fallback
- You can manually paste it into the filter field

## Uninstallation

### For Temporary Installation:

Simply restart Thunderbird

### For Permanent Installation:

1. Go to **Add-ons and Themes**
2. Find "Same Address Filter"
3. Click **Remove**

## Development Notes

### File Structure:

```
Plugin_Thunderbird_SameAdress/
├── manifest.json          # Extension manifest
├── background.js          # Background script for message handling
├── icon-16.png           # Icons (various sizes)
├── icon-32.png
├── icon-48.png
├── icon-64.png
├── generate_icons.py     # Icon generation script
├── build.sh              # Build script for creating XPI
├── .gitignore            # Git ignore file
└── INSTALL.md           # This file
```

### Permissions Used:

- `messagesRead`: Read message metadata
- `accountsRead`: Access account information
- `tabs`: Manage tabs
- `menus`: Create context menus
- `storage`: Store temporary data
- `accountsFolders`: Access folder information

## Version History

- v1.1.0: Added keyboard shortcut support (Ctrl+Shift+F)
- v1.0.0: Initial release with context menu support for filtering by sender

## Support

This is a local/sideloaded extension. For issues or modifications, edit the source files directly.
